CLX is an X11 client library for Common Lisp. The code was originally
taken from a CMUCL distribution, was modified somewhat in order to
make it compile and run under SBCL, then a selection of patches were
added from other CLXes around the net.

= Features

 - SHAPE extension support (Gilbert Baumann)
 - XFREE86-VIDMODE extension support (Iban Hatchondo)
 - experimental RENDER extension support 
     (Gilbert Baumann and Christian Sunesson)
 - X authority support that works with ssh forwarding (Eric Marsden via CMUCL)
 - OPEN-DEFAULT-DISPLAY function which, as the name suggests, does that (dan)
 - various bug fixes (Iban Hatchondo and a cast of several)
 - a manual in texinfo format (Shawn Betts, Gilbert Baumann)

= Compatibility

This CLX distribution is intended to work under the latest released
version of SBCL - please report the bug if it doesn't.  It should
usually also work with earlier versions back to 0.9.0, and possibly
earlier still, but may need manual adjustment to the clx.asd file (to
remove use of newly-introduced features).

It has also been used as a basis for CLX ports on other Lisp
implementations, but these instructions are only good for SBCL. If
you've installed this using some non-SBCL Lisp, please send mail
describing the process so that future versions can incorporate your
instructions.

If you are following SBCL CVS and this CLX does not run in it, please
check the git repository for this CLX distribution to see if your bug
has been fixed already.

git clone git://github.com/sharplispers/clx.git

= Building using quicklisp

* (ql:quickload 'clx)

= Building by hand

If you don't trust quicklisp, here's how to do it manually -

1. Add a symlink to clx.asd from one of the directories listed in your
   asdf:*central-registry*

   If that makes no sense to you yet, choose one of -

   1a. personal installation:

     $ cd $HOME/.sbcl/systems # you may have to create this directory
     $ ln -s /path/to/clx/source/clx.asd .

   1b. systemwide installations: you need to ask SBCL where it lives

     $ sbcl --noinform --eval '(format t "~A~%" (posix-getenv "SBCL_HOME"))' </dev/null
     /usr/local/lib/sbcl/
     * 
     $ cd /usr/local/lib/sbcl/site-systems
     $ ln -s /path/to/clx/source/clx.asd .

2. 
   * (require 'asdf)
   * (asdf:load-system 'clx)

This will load all the files, after compiling anything that needs compiling

3. To test CLX (and get a small amount of Lisp advocacy), try loading
the file "demo/menu", and then executing the function
xlib::just-say-lisp.

   * (load "clx/demo/menu")
   * (xlib::just-say-lisp)

4. If you're new to Lisp, be advised that despite the examples in
demo/, it's generally /not/ considered good style to switch to the
:xlib package and write your code in it.  Spend some time with a
language reference to familiarize yourself with USE-PACKAGE, or 
better yet, the USE option to DEFPACKAGE.


= Known problems:

(none reported)

 
= Bug reports, new features, patches

Please use github to track issues:

https://github.com/sharplispers/clx/issues

and pull requests:

https://github.com/sharplispers/clx/pulls

-- 
Heavy lifting by <Raymond.Wiker at fast.no>
ASDFized version by Daniel Barlow <dan at metacircles.com> 
and Christophe Rhodes <csr21 at cam.ac.uk>

The sharplispers group on github have recently (November 2011)
"adopted" clx and maintain the version that lives at:

https://github.com/sharplispers/clx

